Add developing with tunnels doc (#568)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/extending/apps/developing-with-tunnels.mdx

---
title: Tunneling Apps
---

> ## What is a tunnel?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is a tunnel and why do you need one?
```

WDYT?

The Saleor extendability model relies on the concept of Apps. If you want to read more about them, head to [the Apps page](developer/extending/apps/key-concepts.mdx).

> As you want Apps to react to events in your store, you reach for webhooks. However, webhooks pose a unique challenge: they can only communicate with public clients. If so, how are you supposed to develop your app on `localhost`?

Reviewer: Before even webhooks can be triggered, the user will not be able to install the application without the tunnel. Since it's going to be a first problem for the app developer, maybe it's a better example than webhooks? (or use them both)

This is where tunnels come into play. **A tunnel allows you to create a proxy that exposes a local environment to a public URL.**

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    a[Dev server]
    t[Tunnel]
    c[Saleor Cloud]
    e[External services]

    subgraph Local environment
        a
    end

    subgraph Internet
        t
        c
        e
    end

    a<-.-> t
    t<-->c
    t<-->e
```

---

> Let's say you are building a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) application that leverages a webhook. You boot it up with the `next dev` command, which renders it on `http://localhost:3000`. Since this address is not HTTPS-compliant, the app cannot access the webhook response. We have a perfect use case for a tunnel on our hands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say you are building a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) application that leverages a webhook. You boot it up with the `next dev` command, which renders it on `http://localhost:3000`. Since this address is only reachable from your machine and is not HTTPS-compliant, the webhook cannot reach the app. We have a perfect use case for a tunnel on our hands.
```

Events (webhooks) reach for the app, not the other way around. 
The app can reach cloud API (since it's exposed to the internet).

> A simplified process of using a tunnel to expose this app would look like this:
> 
> 1. You authenticate yourself in the tunneling service of your choosing (e.g.: `ngrok`).
> 2. You provide the tunnel with the port number `3000` (where your app is running).
> 3. You access the URL returned from the tunnel.
> 4. You successfully access the response from the webhook 🎉.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simplified process of using a tunnel to expose this app would look like this:

1. Start dev server of your application
2. You authenticate yourself in the tunneling service of your choosing (e.g.: `ngrok`).
3. You provide the tunnel with the port number `3000` (where your app is running).
4. The tunnel will provide a publicly available URL of your application.
5. Now you can install your application in Saleor Cloud and receive webhooks 🎉.

```

## Available tunnels

### Saleor App Tunnel

:::caution
We are keen on making Saleor App Tunnel flawless. Yet, issues with its stability may occur now and then. If that's the case, please look at [the alternatives](#alternatives).
:::

> To use Saleor App Tunnel, you must install [Saleor CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@saleor/cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Saleor App Tunnel, you must install [Saleor CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@saleor/cli): `npm i -g @saleor/cli`

```

:::note

> Run `saleor app tunnel -h` to check detailed usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `saleor app tunnel --help` to check detailed usage, like changing the used port or automatic installation of the app.
```

IMHO full arguments are less cryptic and easier to remember ;) 
Wanted to add here info about the port, since it might be a popular thing to adjust

:::

> To create a tunnel, run `saleor app tunnel`. After several seconds, the CLI should print a URL with the`.saleor.live` domain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a tunnel, run `saleor app tunnel` inside of the app directory. After several seconds, the CLI should print a URL with the`.saleor.live` domain:
```

```bash
$ saleor app tunnel

✔ Organization · YourShop
✔ Select Environment · staging
✔ Environment · staging
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

     Saleor App Name: Your app
     Saleor App URL: https://your-app-shop.saleor.live

     Saleor Dashboard: https://yourshop.eu.saleor.cloud/dashboard/
     GraphQL Playground: https://yourshop.eu.saleor.cloud/graphql/

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
✔ Installing...

Tunnel is listening to your local machine on port: 3000

Press CTRL-C to stop the tunnel

> Use it to install the app in the Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
The line can be deleted

```

> 

Reviewer: We might add here, that app will be installed automatically and should be available now in the apps list. (which is a selling point of using Saleor CLI :D )

Reviewer: Checked that to be sure - CLI v1.18.0 automatically installed my app *on the first start of the tunnel*. If the app was previously installed and is on the list of installed apps then tunnel does not install it again.
Adding --force-install will install the app with every start of the tunnel

> #### Installing the App in the Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing the App in the Dashboard
```

An extra feature of the Saleor App Template is the ability to install Apps inside the Dashboard. This way, you can develop the App while displaying it inside your Saleor Dashboard.

To do it, please run the following:

```
saleor app tunnel --force-install
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe it's worth mentioning, that theres `saleor app install` command which can be used in case tunnel is already up (both our or alternative like ngrok)?
The command has to be also run from the app directory

#### Troubleshooting

If you experience any issues with the Saleor App Tunnel, please file an issue [here](https://github.com/saleor/saleor-cli/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug,tunnel&template=cli-bug-report.md&title=).

> ### Alternatives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Alternative tunneling software
```

Maybe put this above installing section?
